= Chapter 19 =


'''Due Date:''' By Midnight Wednesday

<blockquote>
Preferably by midnight Wednesday (Sep 14), please respond to at least one of the following writing prompts from Chapter 18 AND one from Chapter 19.

Your responses should contain at least 1 to 3 paragraphs per question, focusing on quality of response over quantity. 

Briefly substantiate your answers and opinions with material culled from the reading assignment. 

These are to be thorough and thoughtful responses, since they will guarantee that you are reading all of the work assigned, and gaining a deeper understanding of how these issues relate to the course overall. 

In these responses, you should practice your ability to explain your understanding of an historical issue and how it impacted the development of American history as a whole. You should also be able to support and defend your points with evidence and explanation from what you’ve read.

Over the rest of the week (through Sunday, September 18), read your classmates’ Discussion Board postings and respond to at least TWO of your classmate’s postings. 

You can explain why you agree or disagree with that student (in a respectful way), or share information relating to the student’s post. 

Students may also make comments and pose questions regarding other issues brought up in the forum.

Discussions will be graded using the applicable rubric. 

While I will not be grading for spelling and grammar, a poorly written post will result in a lower grade. 

It’s important to demonstrate college-level writing ability, if for no other reason than submitting work your professor and classmates can understand.
</blockquote>



== Prompt Choices ==


* Describe the “new” immigrants in the late nineteenth century. Explain where they emigrated from and why they emigrated. Summarize to what extent they were accepted by American citizens.
* According to our textbook, cities “made possible many kinds of social activity difficult or impossible to maintain in rural areas.” Why? What were some of these activities?
* Summarize the major characteristics of the lives of late-nineteenth-century women in both working-class and middle-class families.
* Describe the major characteristics of working-class life and attitudes in the late nineteenth century.
* Summarize the late-nineteenth-century secular and religious criticisms directed at America's urban and industrial growth and the solutions these critics provided.



== Prompts and Content ==

=== Chosen Prompt ===

''Summarize the major characteristics of the lives of late-nineteenth-century women in both working-class and middle-class families.''

'''Topic:''' Working and Middle Class Women in the 19th Century


'''Cited:''' ?


=== Prompt Content ===

<blockquote>
'''Chapter 19: 19th Century Middle and Working Class Women'''

In the late 19th century most women stilled worked at home, but some worked outside the home. In general, two classes of women worked outside their homes, middle and working class. Most middle class women’s work was “white collar” because they had time to complete high-school, and had better language skills. These women worked as salespeople, cashiers, nurses, and teachers. They also occupied jobs of clerks, typewriter operators, and secretaries that in the past were usually filled by men; but now these men had better opportunities or didn’t like the work. “White collar” jobs paid more and the conditions were better “blue-collar” jobs.

 

Working class women worked in two categories of jobs, domestic or industry workers. Industry work was divided into skilled and unskilled jobs, called “blue-collar”. Skilled workers could earn more than unskilled. As machines became more common less workers were needed. This affected skilled and unskilled workers both became less necessary and earned less. Overall unskilled workers did not earn enough to provide for their families, so this made it necessary for the women to work outside the home. As industry became more common, changes in the business cycle affected workers more dramatically; bad changes in the cycle meant more unemployed workers, good changes brought higher employment. Industrial work was less constant and affected by change than domestic jobs. Half of women working outside their homes worked in the industry, the other in domestic jobs. As industry increased the employers looked for cheaper workers so they employed more women and children, since they were cheaper than men. Women who came to the city lived with either private families or in boarding houses. Domestic jobs for women were usually cooks, seamstresses, and housekeepers. While the increase in technology in the industry made employment less stable, in domestic areas it increased employment. The reason is that even though the technological advances helped keep homes cleaner, people wanted things to be more organized, and homes grew bigger which required more workers. However, with more servants came more distance between employee and employer (the same happened in the industry). Where servants were treated more like family in the early 19th century, by the late 19th century relations were more formal and condescending.
</blockquote>


== Discussion Board Responses ==

(See Chapter 18)